---
layout: Post
---
I had never given a speech in front of an audience. Standing in front of a crowd of people just wasn't my thing, but these were just ideas I was creating in my head. I had been to combat, lived extremely scary moments. Why was I freaking out? It was ridiculous. All these thoughts were discharging in my head, as I stood up on the podium. When I watched the recording of my speech, it was not as bad as I had pictured it; however I needed a lot of improvement. My lack of eye contact, avoiding excessive movement, and presenting visual aids needed extensive work.
Dawdling up to the podium, my heart started pounding at an abnormal rate. Every line I had rehearsed and memorized was wiped out from my memory. I couldn't look up because I was so nervous. My eyes were made out of metal and the podium was a powerful magnet. I just wanted to get it over with and go back to my seat where I would blend in with the rest of the class. Without realizing, I started reading my paper at a fast pace. What I had practiced at a three-minute pace turned out to be a two minute-paced speech.
Every person has his or her own way of adapting to a nerve-racking situation.Until I saw this video, I never realized that rocking side to side was my way of adapting. My body started convulsing; I had to do something to stop it. As If rocking wasn’t enough, I shoved my hands in my pocket.  I did not want my actions to contradict my speech. The picture of the tough guy I was aiming to project was gradually losing credibility. The reek of fear was contaminating the classroom; unfortunately, the professor was exposed to it before I could fix the leak.
The greatest asset I possessed was my tattoos, but I did not take advantage of them. It was the visuals that would connect my audience to my topic. It was like making lemonade without the lemon. Some people were probably curious why I wasn’t using the tools in my toolbox. I was suspended motionless behind that podium afraid to come out of my comfort zone. It is not hard to take a step to the side and point at my arm, yet I let my fear take control over my body.
In this world there is always room for improvement, those who do not seek it will always struggle. I know that with practice my errors will diminish. The hours I put into rehearsing had to increase until I was confident to stand in front of an audience. I cannot let my errors or people influence my performance. Even if I hit a dead end, there is always a way around it. The air is polluted with mistakes, unless you can hold your breath forever you will always collide into one.
